 => To grant permission to a user to view the costs of all projects under a Cloud Billing account, give the user permission to view the costs for a Cloud Billing account 
(billing.accounts.getSpendingInformation). To grant permission to a user to view the costs for a specific project, give the user view permissions for individual projects 
(billing.resourceCosts.get).

=> Billing Account Administrator
(roles/billing.admin)	Manage billing accounts (but not create them).

=> Billing Account Costs Manager
(roles/billing.costsManager)	Manage budgets and view and export cost information of billing accounts (but not pricing information).
Also, does not allow the linking or unlinking of projects or otherwise managing the properties of the billing account.

=> Billing Account Viewer
(roles/billing.viewer)	View billing account cost information and transactions.granted to finance teams, it provides access to spend information, but does not confer the
 right to link or unlink projects or otherwise manage the properties of the billing account.

=> Billing Account User
(roles/billing.user)	Link projects to billing accounts. When granted in combination with Project Creator, the two roles allow a user to create new projects linked to the billing 
account on which the Billing Account User role is granted. Or, when granted in combination with the Project Billing Manager role, the two roles allow a user to link and unlink 
projects on the billing account on which the Billing Account User role is granted.

=> Project Billing Manager
(roles/billing.projectManager)	Link/unlink the project to/from a billing account. Organization, folder, or project.

When granted in combination with the Billing Account User role, the Project Billing Manager role allows a user to attach the project to the billing account, but does not grant any 
rights over resources. Project Owners can use this role to allow someone else to manage the billing for the project without granting them resource access.


Random notes - 

A. Create a new Service that points to the existing deployment.
Why is this correct?
A service is how we expose deployments. It's a persistent endpoint that we can interact with, and it will send the traffic over to the pods in the deployment.

You can set the budget to track against a billing account or project.

Edit the number of replicas in the YAML file and rerun the kubectl apply.
Why is this correct?
If you create a deployment with the kubectl create or apply commands, then you can update with kubectl apply -f file.yaml.

This is because you installed google-cloud-sdk with a package manager like apt-get or yum. so they request that we disable the component manager when shipping the Cloud SDK.

Each project can have only 1 App Engine Application!!

INITIAL_DELAY: The number of seconds that a new VM takes to initialize and run its startup script. During a VM's initial delay period, the MIG ignores unsuccessful health checks because the VM might be in the startup process. This prevents the MIG from prematurely recreating a VM.

- App Engine Does not use deployment manager
- Standard App engine yaml file contains project info as well, but flexible App engine doesn't.

- Create an instance template for the instances. Set the "˜Automatic Restart' to on. Set the "˜On-host maintenance' to Migrate VM instance. Add the instance template to an instance group.

- Go to the Logs ingestion window in Stackdriver Logging, and disable the log source for the GKE container resource.

- Deploy the new version in the same application (App engine standard environment) and use the --splits option to give a weight of 99 to the current version and a weight of 1 to the new version

- Perform a rolling-action start-update with maxSurge set to 1 and maxUnavailable set to 0.

- Google recommends using push subscriptions to consume messages from a Pub/Sub topic on Cloud Run. Although it is possible to use Pub/Sub pull subscriptions, pull subscriptions require 
you to monitor message delivery latency and manually scale the number of instances to maintain a healthy delivery latency.

- Cloud Run services in the same project can be deployed to different regions. In App Engine, all services in the project are in the same region.

- To use a service account from outside of Google Cloud, such as on other platforms or on-premises, you must first establish the identity of the service account. Public/private key pairs
 provide a secure way of accomplishing this goal. When you create a service account key, the public portion is stored on Google Cloud, while the private portion is available only to you. 

- You can create external tables in BigQuery that point to the 5-TB AVRO file stored in Cloud Storage. External tables allow you to query data stored in Cloud Storage without the need to 
load the data into BigQuery. 

- Google Cloud’s Data Catalog is a fully managed and scalable metadata management service that empowers organizations to quickly discover, manage, and understand all their data in 
Google Cloud. It offers a simple and easy-to-use search interface for data discovery. By searching for “employee_ssn” in the Data Catalog, you can quickly find all tables across all 
datasets and projects that contain this column. This approach is more efficient and requires less effort compared to writing and maintaining scripts or jobs.


- Moving disks across regions is possible, but moving instances across regions is not i.e it can be moved across zones in the same regio